University of Aberdeen


Courses
Research
About us
Student life
Alumni
Support us
Contact

Subjects A-Z
Staff A-Z
Academic units A-Z

Search

Home > Research > Research in focus > Research themes and collaborations > Quantum technologies

Quantum technologies

Research groups and people
Publications
Profiles
Contact us
 
The quantum world is very strange and unintuitive. The tools and techniques developed by scientists to probe and understand phenomena such as wave-particle duality and quantum entanglement have spawned new technologies. 

Some technologies, such as quantum cryptography or quantum computing, rely on the direct manipulation of quantum states. In other cases the technology is the product of experiments that continually drive the refinement of lasers, sensors and other imaging devices.

Scope for collaboration
Aberdeen has world-leading academics pursuing fascinating research across the broad scope of quantum-inspired science and technology. 

Research in theoretical and experimental optics inspires the possibilities of quantum information and communication.
The James Watt Nanofabrication Centre makes devices and sensors at an unprecendentedly small scale and holds the key to the miniturisation and application of quantum systems.
Scientists at the Institute of Gravitational Research are discovering more about measurement at the quantum limit through the development of gravitational wave detectors. 
Computing scientists simulate and analyse ways to programme quantum computers.


Quantum Technology Hub in Quantum Enhanced Imaging
Part of the UK National Quantum Technologies Programme

Imaging
Research that is testing the limits of imaging

Sagnac Speed-Meter Project
Is it possible to measure more accurately than the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle?

Quantum sensors
Professor Robert Hadfield develops advanced detectors for quantum information systems

Max-Planck Partnership
A new centre for measurement and observation at the quantum limit

James Watt Nanofabrication Centre
A foundry for the fabrication of quantum technologies

Back to top

Quantum technologies
Contact us

The University of Aberdeen is a registered Scottish charity: Registration Number SC004401

SITE LINKS
Accessibility
Maps and travel
Disclaimer
Freedom of information
FOI publication scheme
Privacy and cookies
© UofG

Share 

CURRENT STUDENTS
Information for students
MyAberdeen students

STAFF
MyAberdeen staff
